readme.md, before:

<h1 align="center">
  Github-VPS
</h1>
<p align="center">
    <a href="https://visitorbadge.io/status?path=https%3A%2F%2Fgithub.com%2Fl0n3m4n%2Fgithub-vps">
    <img src="https://api.visitorbadge.io/api/visitors?path=https%3A%2F%2Fgithub.com%2Fl0n3m4n%2Fgithub-vps&label=Visitors&countColor=%2337d67a"/>
  </a>
    <a href="https://www.facebook.com/l0n3m4n">
        <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Facebook-%231877F2.svg?style=for-the-badge&logo=Facebook&logoColor=white" alt="Facebook">
    </a>
      <a href="https://www.twitter.com/l0n3m4n">
        <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Twitter-%23000000.svg?style=for-the-badge&logo=X&logoColor=white" alt="X">
    </a>
    <a href="https://medium.com/@l0n3m4n">
        <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Medium-12100E?style=for-the-badge&logo=medium&logoColor=white" alt="Medium">
    </a>
    <a href="https://hub.docker.com/r/kalilinux/kali-rolling">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/docker-%230db7ed.svg?style=for-the-badge&logo=docker&logoColor=white" alt="Docker">
    </a>
    <a href="https://www.kali.org/">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Kali-268BEE?style=for-the-badge&logo=kalilinux&logoColor=white" alt="Kali">      
    </a>
</p>
<br>
<br>

![neofetch](assets/neofetch.png)

## 📜 Description 
GitHub Codespaces allows developers and hackers to create and utilize their coding environments directly from GitHub in the cloud. As a CTF player or pentester, you can also leverage GitHub Codespaces similarly to a VPS (Virtual Private Server). This makes it easy to work on projects from anywhere with the flexibility of a portable development setup using Docker.

## 📚 Table of Contents
- 📜 [Description](#description)
- 🔥 [What's Nice](#whats-nice)
- 🐳 [Installation](#installation)
- 🙍🏻‍♂️ [Configuration](#configuration)
- 📟 [Github CLI](#github-cli)
- 🚫 [Temporarily Disabled](#temporarily-disabled)
- 👨🏾‍⚖️ [License](#license)

 
## 🔥 What's Nice
- Offers more power with `2-vCPUs`, `8GB-RAM`, and a temporary `32GB-SSD` storage drive.
- Higher performance with `4-vCPUs`, `16GB-RAM`, and a temporary `32GB-SSD` storage drive.
![machine_type](assets/machine_type.png)

### 🐳 Installation

> [!NOTE] 
> [Github codespace terminal](https://docs.github.com/en/codespaces/developing-in-a-codespace/using-github-codespaces-with-github-cli)
---
![starting](assets/starting.png)
```bash
# pulling images 
$ docker pull docker.io/kalilinux/kali-rolling

# Option 1: Priviliged mode (recommended for ctf players)
$ docker run --privileged -it kalilinux/kali-rolling /bin/bash

# Option 2: Interactive mode
$ docker run --tty --interactive kalilinux/kali-rolling
```
## Kali headless vs default
```bash
$ apt update && apt install -y kali-linux-default

$ apt update && apt install -y install kali-linux-headless
```
- **`kali-linux-default`**: This is a metapackage that installs the default set of tools for a typical Kali Linux system. It includes both GUI and command-line tools that are generally used for penetration testing and security auditing.
- It is intended for users who want the full range of Kali Linux tools, including the graphical user interface (GUI) tools and a more complete desktop experience.
  
- **`kali-linux-headless`**: This is another metapackage, but it installs a more minimal setup. It is intended for users who do not need or want a graphical user interface (GUI). This package installs the core tools needed for penetration testing, but without the overhead of a GUI environment (like X11 or a desktop environment).
- It’s ideal for servers or systems where you want to run Kali in a headless environment (no monitor, no graphical interface).

#### Key Differences
- **kali-linux-default** includes the full Kali suite with a GUI.
- **kali-linux-headless** includes the same core set of tools, but without the GUI, making it lighter and more suitable for headless (non-GUI) environments.

#### Which one to use?
- If you plan to use Kali Linux with a graphical interface (for example, on a laptop or desktop), go with **kali-linux-default**.
- If you plan to run Kali on a server or in a virtual machine where you don’t need a GUI, choose **kali-linux-headless** for a more lightweight installation.

### Installation without errors
> [!TIP]
> Refer to default [installation Guide](./assets/installation_guide/readme.md)  


## Configuration
### Starting Docker Kali Image
```bash
# Display
$ docker ps -a

# Rename 
$ docker rename <current_name> <new_name>

# Status details 
$ docker inspect <container id>

# Start 
$ docker start <container id> (e.q) d36922fa21e8

# Attach 
$ docker attach <container id>

# Stop  
$ docker stop <container id>

# Remove
$ docker rm <container id>
```

### Adding non-root user 
![non-root](assets/add_non-root_user.png)
```bash
$ sudo apt update && sudo apt upgrade -y

# option 1:
# To add a new user:
$ sudo adduser l0n3m4n

# option 2:
# Set a Default Shell
$ sudo useradd -m -s /bin/bash l0n3m4n

# Add User to Groups
$ sudo usermod -aG sudo username

# Set a Password for the User
$ sudo passwd username

# Verify User Creation
grep username /etc/passwd

# Add user to sudoers
# option 1: replace to your username
username ALL=(ALL:ALL) ALL

# option 2: 
$  echo "username ALL=(ALL) NOPASSWD:ALL" > /etc/sudoers/username

# switching to non-root user
$ su - username

# verify
$ whoami
```

### Diskspace Monitoring 
```bash
# view ram details
$ free -h 

# view disk space 'du'
$ du -h --max-depth=1 /

# view disk space GB
$ df -h

```

### Docker Privileged
> [!IMPORTANT]
> The way to use openvpn or enable `tun0` you need to add `--privileged` option instead using `--tty` by default, Docker containers do not have access to TUN/TAP devices on the host system due to security and isolation concerns.
```bash
# options 1:
$ docker run --privileged -it kalilinux/kali-rolling /bin/bash

# Option 2: Use --device Flag (More Secure)
# A more secure approach is to use the --device flag to explicitly map the TUN/TAP device from the host into the container. This approach is more controlled and limits access to only the necessary device.

$ docker run --device=/dev/net/tun:/dev/net/tun -it kalilinux/kali-rolling /bin/bash

# Verify TUN/TAP Functionality Inside the Container
$ ls -l /dev/net/tun
```
### Automation in new terminal session 
> kali_privs.sh

![kali_privs](assets/kali_privs.png)
```sh
#!/bin/bash

RED='\033[0;31m'
GREEN='\033[0;32m'
YELLOW='\033[0;33m'
NC='\033[0m'

# Get Kali Linux Docker container ID (grabbing the first one if multiple are present)
kali_id=$(docker ps -a -q | head -n 1)
bash='/bin/bash'

echo -e "${YELLOW}Starting another terminal kali privs${NC}"

# Start the container if not running
if ! docker start $kali_id; then
    echo -e "${RED}Failed to start container${NC}"
    exit 1
fi

# Execute bash inside the container
if ! docker exec -it $kali_id $bash; then
    echo -e "${RED}Failed to execute bash in container${NC}"
    exit 1
fi

echo -e "${YELLOW}Success..${NC}"
sleep 1.5
```

### Manual Terminal Session
```bash
$ docker exec -it <container_id> /bin/bash
```

## Adding Graphical User Interface (noVNC)
> [!IMPORTANT]
> Run this script in the terminal of your Github Codespace

> setup-noVNC.sh 
```sh
#!/bin/bash

RED='\033[0;31m'
GREEN='\033[0;32m'
YELLOW='\033[0;33m'
NC='\033[0m' 

error_exit() {
    echo -e "${RED}Error: $1${NC}" >&2
    exit 1
}
set -e

echo -e "${GREEN}Starting setup of VNC and noVNC on github codespace terminal...${NC}"

# Update and install necessary packages
echo -e "${YELLOW}1. Updating system and installing required packages...${NC}"
{
    sudo apt update
    sudo apt install -y xfce4 xfce4-goodies novnc python3-websockify python3-numpy tightvncserver htop nano neofetch
} || error_exit "Failed to update and install packages."

# Generate SSL certificate
echo -e "${YELLOW}2. Generating SSL certificate for noVNC...${NC}"
{
    mkdir -p ~/.vnc
    openssl req -x509 -nodes -newkey rsa:3072 -keyout ~/.vnc/novnc.pem -out ~/.vnc/novnc.pem -days 3650 -subj "/C=US/ST=State/L=City/O=Organization/OU=OrgUnit/CN=localhost"
} || error_exit "Failed to generate SSL certificate."

# Start VNC server to create initial configuration files
echo -e "${YELLOW}3. Starting VNC server to create initial configuration files...${NC}"
{
    vncserver
} || error_exit "Failed to start VNC server."

# Kill the VNC server to edit the configuration
echo -e "${YELLOW}4. Stopping VNC server to modify configuration files...${NC}"
{
    vncserver -kill :1
} || error_exit "Failed to kill VNC server."

# Backup and create new xstartup file
echo -e "${YELLOW}5. Backing up old xstartup file and creating a new one...${NC}"
{
    mv ~/.vnc/xstartup ~/.vnc/xstartup.bak

    cat <<EOL > ~/.vnc/xstartup
#!/bin/sh
xrdb \$HOME/.Xresources
startxfce4 &
EOL

    chmod +x ~/.vnc/xstartup
} || error_exit "Failed to back up and create xstartup file."

echo -e "${GREEN}Succesfully configured please run ${YELLOW}start-novcn.sh${NC}"
```
### Starting noVNC Web access 
> start-novnc.sh
```sh
#!/bin/bash

NC="\e[0m"        
RED="\033[0;31m"      
GREEN="\033[0;32m"    
YELLOW="\033[1;33m"   
BLUE="\033[1;34m"     
CYAN="\033[1;36m"     
WHITE="\033[1;37m"    
MAGENTA="\033[1;35m"  

WEB_DIR="/usr/share/novnc/"
CERT_FILE="$HOME/.vnc/novnc.pem"
LOCAL_PORT="5901"
LISTEN_PORT="6080"


# Check if the cert file exists
if [ ! -f "$CERT_FILE" ]; then
    echo -e "${RED}Error: Certificate file not found: ${BLINK}$CERT_FILE${NC}"
    exit 1
fi

# Start noVNC
echo -e "${YELLOW} Starting noVNC to enable web-based VNC access...${NC}"
websockify -D --web="$WEB_DIR" --cert="$CERT_FILE" $LISTEN_PORT localhost:$LOCAL_PORT

# Start vncserver
# Note: adjust the resolution if applicable
echo -e "${YELLOW} Starting novncserver${NC}"
vncserver -geometry 1920x1080

echo -e "${GREEN}noVNC server started on port ${WHITE}$LISTEN_PORT${NC}, forwarding to localhost:${WHITE}$LOCAL_PORT${NC}. Starting noVNC to enable web-based VNC access..."

```
## Option 1: SSH over Ngrok
### Adding password to root user
> Github codespace terminal 
```bash
# test@123 is my example passwd 
$ openssl passwd -6
Password: 
Verifying - Password: 
$6$t6ABZLPZ204OgZFB$qxD2hNY2rFj5nRBx6ZI9mgrlvCo6EDDjGlLEaoeHwUMbcropNQOKu8OddxTLi5uTsXe13GyFAYYLmy.uUnm9/.
```
```bash
$ cat /etc/shadow | grep "root"
root:*:20107:0:99999:7:::

# replace "*" to your sha256 hash
root:$6$t6ABZLPZ204OgZFB$qxD2hNY2rFj5nRBx6ZI9mgrlvCo6EDDjGlLEaoeHwUMbcropNQOKu8OddxTLi5uTsXe13GyFAYYLmy.uUnm9/.:20107:0:99999:7:::
```
### SSH installation and config
```bash
root㉿434e150c83343:~# service ssh start
root㉿434e150c83343:~# service ssh status
```
```bash
# generating keys
root㉿434e150c83343:~# ssh-keygen -t rsa -f ngrok_rsa -b 4096 -C '' -N test@123  
```
```bash
# If you dont have authorized_keys create one
root㉿434e150c83343:~# touch /root/.ssh/authorized_keys
root㉿434e150c83343:~# cat ngrok_rsa.pub > /root/.ssh/authorized_keys
```

### Ngrok Installation and config
> server side (codespace)
```bash
# download and install
$ curl -sSL https://ngrok-agent.s3.amazonaws.com/ngrok.asc \
	| sudo tee /etc/apt/trusted.gpg.d/ngrok.asc >/dev/null \
	&& echo "deb https://ngrok-agent.s3.amazonaws.com buster main" \
	| sudo tee /etc/apt/sources.list.d/ngrok.list \
	&& sudo apt update \
	&& sudo apt install ngrok
```
```bash
# paste your authtoken
$ ngrok config add-authtoken <your_authtoken>
```
```bash
# start ssh via tcp
$ ngrok tcp 22
```
> It should be like this
```bash
ngrok                                                                          (Ctrl+C to quit)
                                                                                               
🐛 Found a bug? Let us know: https://github.com/ngrok/ngrok                                    
                                                                                               
Session Status                online                                                           
Account                       example@gmail.com (Plan: Paid)                               
Version                       3.19.0                                                           
Region                        United States (us)                                               
Latency                       20ms                                                             
Web Interface                 http://127.0.0.1:4040                                            
Forwarding                    tcp://8.tcp.ngrok.io:32325 -> localhost:22                       
                                                                                               
Connections                   ttl     opn     rt1     rt5     p50     p90                      
                              1       1       0.00    0.00    940.60  940.60 
```
### Client side 
```bash
$ chmod 600 ~/.ssh/ngrok_rsa

$ ssh -i ~/.ssh/ngrok_rsa root@8.tcp.ngrok.io -p 32325
```

## Github CLI
> Using SSH via ngrok can be time-consuming. You can simplify the process by using the GitHub CLI instead. 
```bash
# update and install gh cli
sudo apt update && sudo apt install gh -y

# Authenticate github cli 
gh auth login

? What account do you want to log into?  [Use arrows to move, type to filter]
> GitHub.com
  GitHub Enterprise Server

# select Github.com
? What is your preferred protocol for Git operations on this host?  [Use arrows to move, type to filter]
> HTTPS
  SSH

# select HTTPS
? How would you like to authenticate GitHub CLI?  [Use arrows to move, type to filter]
> Login with a web browser
  Paste an authentication token

# select Web browser 
! First copy your one-time code: FB82-C056
Press Enter to open github.com in your browser... 

# press enter and paste the OTP in your browser
gh codespace list | less

# copy codespace id for e.g codespace-id-34v9xp67944jvcw43
gh codespace ssh --codespace codespace-id-34v9xp67944jvcw43

# view github codespace info
gh codespace view -c ubuntu-space-doodle-blahblah
```
#### Output 
```bash
Welcome to Ubuntu 24.04.2 LTS (GNU/Linux 6.8.0-1030-azure x86_64)

 * Documentation:  https://help.ubuntu.com
 * Management:     https://landscape.canonical.com
 * Support:        https://ubuntu.com/pro
Last login: Wed Sep 24 15:16:22 2025 from ::1
@l0n3m4n ➜ /workspaces/github-vps (main) $ 

```

## 🚫 Temporarily Disabled 
If you've used 100% of the included services for GitHub Codespaces storage, a few things might happen depending on your account settings and actions.

1. **Inability to Use Codespaces**: You won't be able to create or use GitHub Codespaces until either your `free allotment resets next month` or you take action to manage your usage.
2. **Options to Regain Access**:
    - Set Up a Spending Limit: You can set up a `spending limit` on your GitHub account to prevent unexpected charges and manage your usage effectively.
    - Delete Unused Resources: Consider `deleting Codespaces` or `prebuilds` that are no longer needed to free up space and potentially reduce future charges.
3. **Access to In-Progress Work**: It's important to `export` any unpushed work to a branch if you want to retain access to your in-progress projects. This ensures you have a backup and can continue working on them when you regain access to Codespaces.
4. **Review Usage and Charges**: GitHub provides a `usage report` where you can see detailed information about your Codespaces and prebuild usage. This can help you understand your usage patterns and manage future usage effectively.
---
![codespace](assets/codespace.png)
![billing](assets/billing.png)

## 🔄 Changelog
### v1.1.0 - [2024-06-29] 
- Adjustment:
    - Adding `privileged` user mode to enable TUN error when starting the OpenVPN file.
      
## 📝 Todo
- [x] **~~Adding remotehost for graphical user inferface (GUI), this includes xrdp, ssh, noVNC and etc.~~**
- [x] **~~Adding Automated builds Dockerfile to ensure consistency and reliability.~~**
- [x] **~~Adding ngrok to exposed your cloud servers behind NATs and firewalls to the public internet over secure tunnels.~~**
 

## 👨🏾‍⚖️ License
This project is under terms of the [MIT License](LICENSE). bugs and error, create [issue](https://github.com/l0n3m4n/github-vps/issues/new)

Commit message:

kaliup: remove local keepalive; restore nohup websockify; add Actions keepalive workflow and README docs

readme.md, after:

<h1 align="center">
  Github-VPS
</h1>
<p align="center">
    <a href="https://visitorbadge.io/status?path=https%3A%2F%2Fgithub.com%2Fl0n3m4n%2Fgithub-vps">
    <img src="https://api.visitorbadge.io/api/visitors?path=https%3A%2F%2Fgithub.com%2Fl0n3m4n%2Fgithub-vps&label=Visitors&countColor=%2337d67a"/>
  </a>
    <a href="https://www.facebook.com/l0n3m4n">
        <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Facebook-%231877F2.svg?style=for-the-badge&logo=Facebook&logoColor=white" alt="Facebook">
    </a>
      <a href="https://www.twitter.com/l0n3m4n">
        <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Twitter-%23000000.svg?style=for-the-badge&logo=X&logoColor=white" alt="X">
    </a>
    <a href="https://medium.com/@l0n3m4n">
        <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Medium-12100E?style=for-the-badge&logo=medium&logoColor=white" alt="Medium">
    </a>
    <a href="https://hub.docker.com/r/kalilinux/kali-rolling">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/docker-%230db7ed.svg?style=for-the-badge&logo=docker&logoColor=white" alt="Docker">
    </a>
    <a href="https://www.kali.org/">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Kali-268BEE?style=for-the-badge&logo=kalilinux&logoColor=white" alt="Kali">      
    </a>
</p>
<br>
<br>

![neofetch](assets/neofetch.png)

## 📜 Description 
GitHub Codespaces allows developers and hackers to create and utilize their coding environments directly from GitHub in the cloud. As a CTF player or pentester, you can also leverage GitHub Codespaces similarly to a VPS (Virtual Private Server). This makes it easy to work on projects from anywhere with the flexibility of a portable development setup using Docker.

## 📚 Table of Contents
- 📜 [Description](#description)
- 🔥 [What's Nice](#whats-nice)
- 🐳 [Installation](#installation)
- 🙍🏻‍♂️ [Configuration](#configuration)
- 📟 [Github CLI](#github-cli)
- 🚫 [Temporarily Disabled](#temporarily-disabled)
- 👨🏾‍⚖️ [License](#license)

 
## 🔥 What's Nice
- Offers more power with `2-vCPUs`, `8GB-RAM`, and a temporary `32GB-SSD` storage drive.
- Higher performance with `4-vCPUs`, `16GB-RAM`, and a temporary `32GB-SSD` storage drive.
![machine_type](assets/machine_type.png)

### 🐳 Installation

> [!NOTE] 
> [Github codespace terminal](https://docs.github.com/en/codespaces/developing-in-a-codespace/using-github-codespaces-with-github-cli)
---
![starting](assets/starting.png)
```bash
# pulling images 
$ docker pull docker.io/kalilinux/kali-rolling

# Option 1: Priviliged mode (recommended for ctf players)
$ docker run --privileged -it kalilinux/kali-rolling /bin/bash

# Option 2: Interactive mode
$ docker run --tty --interactive kalilinux/kali-rolling
```
## Kali headless vs default
```bash
$ apt update && apt install -y kali-linux-default

$ apt update && apt install -y install kali-linux-headless
```
- **`kali-linux-default`**: This is a metapackage that installs the default set of tools for a typical Kali Linux system. It includes both GUI and command-line tools that are generally used for penetration testing and security auditing.
- It is intended for users who want the full range of Kali Linux tools, including the graphical user interface (GUI) tools and a more complete desktop experience.
  
- **`kali-linux-headless`**: This is another metapackage, but it installs a more minimal setup. It is intended for users who do not need or want a graphical user interface (GUI). This package installs the core tools needed for penetration testing, but without the overhead of a GUI environment (like X11 or a desktop environment).
- It’s ideal for servers or systems where you want to run Kali in a headless environment (no monitor, no graphical interface).

#### Key Differences
- **kali-linux-default** includes the full Kali suite with a GUI.
- **kali-linux-headless** includes the same core set of tools, but without the GUI, making it lighter and more suitable for headless (non-GUI) environments.

#### Which one to use?
- If you plan to use Kali Linux with a graphical interface (for example, on a laptop or desktop), go with **kali-linux-default**.
- If you plan to run Kali on a server or in a virtual machine where you don’t need a GUI, choose **kali-linux-headless** for a more lightweight installation.

### Installation without errors
> [!TIP]
> Refer to default [installation Guide](./assets/installation_guide/readme.md)  


## Configuration
### Starting Docker Kali Image
```bash
# Display
$ docker ps -a

# Rename 
$ docker rename <current_name> <new_name>

# Status details 
$ docker inspect <container id>

# Start 
$ docker start <container id> (e.q) d36922fa21e8

# Attach 
$ docker attach <container id>

# Stop  
$ docker stop <container id>

# Remove
$ docker rm <container id>
```

### Adding non-root user 
![non-root](assets/add_non-root_user.png)
```bash
$ sudo apt update && sudo apt upgrade -y

# option 1:
# To add a new user:
$ sudo adduser l0n3m4n

# option 2:
# Set a Default Shell
$ sudo useradd -m -s /bin/bash l0n3m4n

# Add User to Groups
$ sudo usermod -aG sudo username

# Set a Password for the User
$ sudo passwd username

# Verify User Creation
grep username /etc/passwd

# Add user to sudoers
# option 1: replace to your username
username ALL=(ALL:ALL) ALL

# option 2: 
$  echo "username ALL=(ALL) NOPASSWD:ALL" > /etc/sudoers/username

# switching to non-root user
$ su - username

# verify
$ whoami
```

### Diskspace Monitoring 
```bash
# view ram details
$ free -h 

# view disk space 'du'
$ du -h --max-depth=1 /

# view disk space GB
$ df -h

```

### Docker Privileged
> [!IMPORTANT]
> The way to use openvpn or enable `tun0` you need to add `--privileged` option instead using `--tty` by default, Docker containers do not have access to TUN/TAP devices on the host system due to security and isolation concerns.
```bash
# options 1:
$ docker run --privileged -it kalilinux/kali-rolling /bin/bash

# Option 2: Use --device Flag (More Secure)
# A more secure approach is to use the --device flag to explicitly map the TUN/TAP device from the host into the container. This approach is more controlled and limits access to only the necessary device.

$ docker run --device=/dev/net/tun:/dev/net/tun -it kalilinux/kali-rolling /bin/bash

# Verify TUN/TAP Functionality Inside the Container
$ ls -l /dev/net/tun
```
### Automation in new terminal session 
> kali_privs.sh

![kali_privs](assets/kali_privs.png)
```sh
#!/bin/bash

RED='\033[0;31m'
GREEN='\033[0;32m'
YELLOW='\033[0;33m'
NC='\033[0m'

# Get Kali Linux Docker container ID (grabbing the first one if multiple are present)
kali_id=$(docker ps -a -q | head -n 1)
bash='/bin/bash'

echo -e "${YELLOW}Starting another terminal kali privs${NC}"

# Start the container if not running
if ! docker start $kali_id; then
    echo -e "${RED}Failed to start container${NC}"
    exit 1
fi

# Execute bash inside the container
if ! docker exec -it $kali_id $bash; then
    echo -e "${RED}Failed to execute bash in container${NC}"
    exit 1
fi

echo -e "${YELLOW}Success..${NC}"
sleep 1.5
```

### Manual Terminal Session
```bash
$ docker exec -it <container_id> /bin/bash
```

## Adding Graphical User Interface (noVNC)
> [!IMPORTANT]
> Run this script in the terminal of your Github Codespace

> setup-noVNC.sh 
```sh
#!/bin/bash

RED='\033[0;31m'
GREEN='\033[0;32m'
YELLOW='\033[0;33m'
NC='\033[0m' 

error_exit() {
    echo -e "${RED}Error: $1${NC}" >&2
    exit 1
}
set -e

echo -e "${GREEN}Starting setup of VNC and noVNC on github codespace terminal...${NC}"

# Update and install necessary packages
echo -e "${YELLOW}1. Updating system and installing required packages...${NC}"
{
    sudo apt update
    sudo apt install -y xfce4 xfce4-goodies novnc python3-websockify python3-numpy tightvncserver htop nano neofetch
} || error_exit "Failed to update and install packages."

# Generate SSL certificate
echo -e "${YELLOW}2. Generating SSL certificate for noVNC...${NC}"
{
    mkdir -p ~/.vnc
    openssl req -x509 -nodes -newkey rsa:3072 -keyout ~/.vnc/novnc.pem -out ~/.vnc/novnc.pem -days 3650 -subj "/C=US/ST=State/L=City/O=Organization/OU=OrgUnit/CN=localhost"
} || error_exit "Failed to generate SSL certificate."

# Start VNC server to create initial configuration files
echo -e "${YELLOW}3. Starting VNC server to create initial configuration files...${NC}"
{
    vncserver
} || error_exit "Failed to start VNC server."

# Kill the VNC server to edit the configuration
echo -e "${YELLOW}4. Stopping VNC server to modify configuration files...${NC}"
{
    vncserver -kill :1
} || error_exit "Failed to kill VNC server."

# Backup and create new xstartup file
echo -e "${YELLOW}5. Backing up old xstartup file and creating a new one...${NC}"
{
    mv ~/.vnc/xstartup ~/.vnc/xstartup.bak

    cat <<EOL > ~/.vnc/xstartup
#!/bin/sh
xrdb \$HOME/.Xresources
startxfce4 &
EOL

    chmod +x ~/.vnc/xstartup
} || error_exit "Failed to back up and create xstartup file."

echo -e "${GREEN}Succesfully configured please run ${YELLOW}start-novcn.sh${NC}"
```
### Starting noVNC Web access 
> start-novnc.sh
```sh
#!/bin/bash

NC="\e[0m"        
RED="\033[0;31m"      
GREEN="\033[0;32m"    
YELLOW="\033[1;33m"   
BLUE="\033[1;34m"     
CYAN="\033[1;36m"     
WHITE="\033[1;37m"    
MAGENTA="\033[1;35m"  

WEB_DIR="/usr/share/novnc/"
CERT_FILE="$HOME/.vnc/novnc.pem"
LOCAL_PORT="5901"
LISTEN_PORT="6080"


# Check if the cert file exists
if [ ! -f "$CERT_FILE" ]; then
    echo -e "${RED}Error: Certificate file not found: ${BLINK}$CERT_FILE${NC}"
    exit 1
fi

# Start noVNC
echo -e "${YELLOW} Starting noVNC to enable web-based VNC access...${NC}"
websockify -D --web="$WEB_DIR" --cert="$CERT_FILE" $LISTEN_PORT localhost:$LOCAL_PORT

# Start vncserver
# Note: adjust the resolution if applicable
echo -e "${YELLOW} Starting novncserver${NC}"
vncserver -geometry 1920x1080

echo -e "${GREEN}noVNC server started on port ${WHITE}$LISTEN_PORT${NC}, forwarding to localhost:${WHITE}$LOCAL_PORT${NC}. Starting noVNC to enable web-based VNC access..."

```

### Keep Codespace awake (recommended)
If your Codespace is stopped due to "inactivity", use a lightweight external ping to a public forwarded port. This repository includes a GitHub Actions workflow that periodically curls your Codespace public URL to simulate user activity.

How to use:
1. Make sure `6080` (or your noVNC port) is set to **Public** in the Codespaces PORTS panel.
2. Add a repository secret named `CODESPACE_KEEPALIVE_URL` containing the public Codespace URL (example: `https://<your-codespace>-6080.app.github.dev/vnc_auto.html`).
3. The workflow `.github/workflows/codespace-keepalive.yml` (added to this repo) will ping that URL on a 5‑minute schedule.

Note: this method is practical and simple but not officially guaranteed — Codespaces idle policies can still apply.

## Option 1: SSH over Ngrok
### Adding password to root user
> Github codespace terminal 
```bash
# test@123 is my example passwd 
$ openssl passwd -6
Password: 
Verifying - Password: 
$6$t6ABZLPZ204OgZFB$qxD2hNY2rFj5nRBx6ZI9mgrlvCo6EDDjGlLEaoeHwUMbcropNQOKu8OddxTLi5uTsXe13GyFAYYLmy.uUnm9/.
```
```bash
$ cat /etc/shadow | grep "root"
root:*:20107:0:99999:7:::

# replace "*" to your sha256 hash
root:$6$t6ABZLPZ204OgZFB$qxD2hNY2rFj5nRBx6ZI9mgrlvCo6EDDjGlLEaoeHwUMbcropNQOKu8OddxTLi5uTsXe13GyFAYYLmy.uUnm9/.:20107:0:99999:7:::
```
### SSH installation and config
```bash
root㉿434e150c83343:~# service ssh start
root㉿434e150c83343:~# service ssh status
```
```bash
# generating keys
root㉿434e150c83343:~# ssh-keygen -t rsa -f ngrok_rsa -b 4096 -C '' -N test@123  
```
```bash
# If you dont have authorized_keys create one
root㉿434e150c83343:~# touch /root/.ssh/authorized_keys
root㉿434e150c83343:~# cat ngrok_rsa.pub > /root/.ssh/authorized_keys
```

### Ngrok Installation and config
> server side (codespace)
```bash
# download and install
$ curl -sSL https://ngrok-agent.s3.amazonaws.com/ngrok.asc \
	| sudo tee /etc/apt/trusted.gpg.d/ngrok.asc >/dev/null \
	&& echo "deb https://ngrok-agent.s3.amazonaws.com buster main" \
	| sudo tee /etc/apt/sources.list.d/ngrok.list \
	&& sudo apt update \
	&& sudo apt install ngrok
```
```bash
# paste your authtoken
$ ngrok config add-authtoken <your_authtoken>
```
```bash
# start ssh via tcp
$ ngrok tcp 22
```
> It should be like this
```bash
ngrok                                                                          (Ctrl+C to quit)
                                                                                               
🐛 Found a bug? Let us know: https://github.com/ngrok/ngrok                                    
                                                                                               
Session Status                online                                                           
Account                       example@gmail.com (Plan: Paid)                               
Version                       3.19.0                                                           
Region                        United States (us)                                               
Latency                       20ms                                                             
Web Interface                 http://127.0.0.1:4040                                            
Forwarding                    tcp://8.tcp.ngrok.io:32325 -> localhost:22                       
                                                                                               
Connections                   ttl     opn     rt1     rt5     p50     p90                      
                              1       1       0.00    0.00    940.60  940.60 
```
### Client side 
```bash
$ chmod 600 ~/.ssh/ngrok_rsa

$ ssh -i ~/.ssh/ngrok_rsa root@8.tcp.ngrok.io -p 32325
```

## Github CLI
> Using SSH via ngrok can be time-consuming. You can simplify the process by using the GitHub CLI instead. 
```bash
# update and install gh cli
sudo apt update && sudo apt install gh -y

# Authenticate github cli 
gh auth login

? What account do you want to log into?  [Use arrows to move, type to filter]
> GitHub.com
  GitHub Enterprise Server

# select Github.com
? What is your preferred protocol for Git operations on this host?  [Use arrows to move, type to filter]
> HTTPS
  SSH

# select HTTPS
? How would you like to authenticate GitHub CLI?  [Use arrows to move, type to filter]
> Login with a web browser
  Paste an authentication token

# select Web browser 
! First copy your one-time code: FB82-C056
Press Enter to open github.com in your browser... 

# press enter and paste the OTP in your browser
gh codespace list | less

# copy codespace id for e.g codespace-id-34v9xp67944jvcw43
gh codespace ssh --codespace codespace-id-34v9xp67944jvcw43

# view github codespace info
gh codespace view -c ubuntu-space-doodle-blahblah
```
#### Output 
```bash
Welcome to Ubuntu 24.04.2 LTS (GNU/Linux 6.8.0-1030-azure x86_64)

 * Documentation:  https://help.ubuntu.com
 * Management:     https://landscape.canonical.com
 * Support:        https://ubuntu.com/pro
Last login: Wed Sep 24 15:16:22 2025 from ::1
@l0n3m4n ➜ /workspaces/github-vps (main) $ 

```

## 🚫 Temporarily Disabled 
If you've used 100% of the included services for GitHub Codespaces storage, a few things might happen depending on your account settings and actions.

1. **Inability to Use Codespaces**: You won't be able to create or use GitHub Codespaces until either your `free allotment resets next month` or you take action to manage your usage.
2. **Options to Regain Access**:
    - Set Up a Spending Limit: You can set up a `spending limit` on your GitHub account to prevent unexpected charges and manage your usage effectively.
    - Delete Unused Resources: Consider `deleting Codespaces` or `prebuilds` that are no longer needed to free up space and potentially reduce future charges.
3. **Access to In-Progress Work**: It's important to `export` any unpushed work to a branch if you want to retain access to your in-progress projects. This ensures you have a backup and can continue working on them when you regain access to Codespaces.
4. **Review Usage and Charges**: GitHub provides a `usage report` where you can see detailed information about your Codespaces and prebuild usage. This can help you understand your usage patterns and manage future usage effectively.
---
![codespace](assets/codespace.png)
![billing](assets/billing.png)

## 🔄 Changelog
### v1.1.0 - [2024-06-29] 
- Adjustment:
    - Adding `privileged` user mode to enable TUN error when starting the OpenVPN file.
      
## 📝 Todo
- [x] **~~Adding remotehost for graphical user inferface (GUI), this includes xrdp, ssh, noVNC and etc.~~**
- [x] **~~Adding Automated builds Dockerfile to ensure consistency and reliability.~~**
- [x] **~~Adding ngrok to exposed your cloud servers behind NATs and firewalls to the public internet over secure tunnels.~~**
 

## 👨🏾‍⚖️ License
This project is under terms of the [MIT License](LICENSE). bugs and error, create [issue](https://github.com/l0n3m4n/github-vps/issues/new)
